Episodes

Watched: 1-300, 732-, 729, 728, 727, -750,


あ か さ た な は ま や ら わ
い き し ち に ひ み り (ゐ)
う く す つ ぬ ふ む る ゆ
え け せ て ね へ め れ (ゑ)
お こ そ と の ほ も ろ よ を
ん

There is Japanes physicist Fujikawa Kazuo (I cannot find his name in kanji), that have interesting idea about anomalies in quantum field theory, I now try to read his work to preper for exam tommorow.

いいえ They teach that this is "no" in Japanese, but I also here that this word is not used by normal people, that it is "textbook Japanese" not the real one. What is your opinion on that matter?

こえ With hiragana is not so hard, but I still have 2000 kanji to learn to have basic knowledge of Japanese.

あい I hope that I will never again forgot this world.

あか From when I remember, this is my favorite color.

か Word "mosqituo" is not the most important one to know, but at least it is easy to remember.

かく This is why I try to learn Japanese words.

きく I think I quite good at that.

I checked it and at this moment I listen to and make a comments to first 300 episodes. Assuming that one episode is 10 minute long it is 50 hours of listening to Japanese. Now I need to expand my vocabulary.

い - stomach. I think I will remember this one for years now. It is the first word in my hiragana materials and I studied them probably four times already.

Mikołaj Melanowicz is polish Japanese studies profesor. In the 1990s he wrote three volume work about Japanese literature from the VI century to the XX century. I guess than in this books can be more about Japanese literature that some people learn in Japanese schools.

https://japonistyka.io.filg.uj.edu.pl/mikolaj-melanowicz

How was it?! We have never heard the one.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v-ePGfevt8g

銀の匙 is very good manga. I read four volumes out of fifteen just in two days.

Asadori Kato około 1930




TO POST
Today I finally watched lecture by Gary Leupp "Bad Monks, Temple Warriors: The Spectrum of Japanese Religious History", while training my hiragana writing skills. Lecture is very interesting, you can find link below.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1iSd6CkEoAU
