My list of problems
1) Why go list -m all produces
example.com/hello
golang.org/x/mod v0.8.0
golang.org/x/sys v0.5.0
golang.org/x/text v0.8.0
golang.org/x/tools v0.6.0
rsc.io/quote v1.5.2
rsc.io/sampler v1.3.0

and go.mod file has
require (
	golang.org/x/text v0.8.0 // indirect
	rsc.io/quote v1.5.2 // indirect
	rsc.io/sampler v1.3.0 // indirect
)

Problems with Gonum offical page

Hello,

In the talk "Talks -> An Introduction to Gonum" (https://go-talks.appspot.com/github.com/gonum/talks/2017/gonumtour.slide#1) at the page

Best regards,
Kamil Ziemian


I not a Go expert, so I don't know if this `select' will work properly. After sending first int to `ch' two lines of code with compete for receiving from this channel:
`fmt.Println(<-ch)'
`case <- ch:'
Code will work as intended only if the first line always win, but can we be sure that always be so?

Can I help with Gonum official page?

Hello,

I first must say, that I'm not consider myself a programmer. I'm rather mathematical physicist who want solve more models by using numerical methods, so don't expect much from me.

I now reading Go Language Specification and in the breaks I try code from Gonum project and read Gonum official page. I think that Gonum page can be improved in small way here and there, so can I help in this almost negligible way?

I think it would be handy

Best regards,
Kamil


Hello,

In the turn of events that shock no one, I end reading "Casti Connubii" before you answer my question, how can I give it to you? Since I first wrote about this booklet on 6 April, I must say that you give me plenty of time to read it. So, should we meet in person or should I send it via mail? Or maybe you just don't want it? Please, have some mercy and give me an answer as soon as possible. I want to close this as soon as possible.
If you want I will meet you personally, but, I guess, it will still be faster to just send you a booklet by mail, knowing how hard it is for you to find the time.
About meeting to talk about the relation of physics to faith, about which topic you write "I think this is a task of the utmost importance", I can go, I only think that would probably never happen, since I can't remember when we meet last or even correspond, when initiative didn't lie on my part. You either don't think that things are important or you think they are important, but talking with me about them is a waste of time. In the second situation, I wish that you told me that years ago. (Also, you may use the word "important" with the wrong meaning. As you used the buzzword "witness" without knowing what it implies.)

Maybe you would want to prove me wrong and organize a meeting in a finite time. For my money, this is the only situation that would make you do so, without me taking initiative.

I need to make a comment. If you call something as being of "utmost importance" and don't spend much time dealing with this topic, it is not very important to you. Words are cheap, actions are expensive. There are things that I consider as very important, but I will not pursue, because they are not the most important things to me. I think someone needs to deal with them, but they are not so important in my estimation, that I need to be such a person. I'm fine with that.
I'm not fine with you or any other person declaring something to be very important or even of utmost importance, but doing nothing about it. I have a strong aversion to such empty declarations, even if I'm too often guilty of them. I agree, I need to work more on myself.
You know, when I talk with people like you, I try to remove every imaginable point of confusion and despite that, people still have problems with understanding the simple things that I said.
If you want something from me, like meet me in person, write to me, I will see what I can do. For now, after giving you "Casti Connubii" or getting information that you don't want, I need to prove to you that my inability to leave you alone was not dictated by mental illness or other nonsense, but by my attempts to obey the Lord. And, in a strange way, this means leave you alone for time long enough to prove that. Yes, I repeat myself, but I hope it will result in a better understanding of me.
I hope that I did everything that I could to help you leave a sunny illusion and see the world in a more accurate way. I failed in this attempt and I probably some time in the future will wonder, how ideology can make people so blind as it made you. From my point of view, you ambreaced some strange ideology that prevented you from understanding the extent of Satan's power in this world and replaced it with the illusion of positive thinking.
Okay, even if I don't like it, I need to write about your children. "As I shared with you think for which I think I can be genuinely proud of my children and heard in response only some vague dark perspectives for the future I will think twice next time." Your children's attitude towards religion until they are under 20 years of age, will not impress me. They are not even 10 years of age, they know so little about the world and their worldview will probably change drastically before they reach the age of 20. In this age, they probably see no problems with accepting what their parents accept and don't have many problems that living in the XXI century pose to Christians. Also, they are children under 10 years of age and they have very limited ways to practice faith, because they are children and you need the right that you acquire as an adult to be able to fully practice the faith. At least this is the case in 99.9999% of cases. (This is a deep topic, but I hope that you won't be hairsplitting it too much.) I think sociological research shows that today in Poland mostly people between 10 and 19 years are abandoning the faith. If so, this is not a surprise for me.

This is why I'm totally not impressed by what your children do now. When they will be 20 years old, yes, I may be impressed. But, you should know, that when it comes to religion, making me impressed is something that happens very rarely. I just have decent standards for being good Christians and very few people achieve them, myself included.
To repeat myself. I hope that I did everything that I could, to make you go beyond the veil of your ideology. I failed. Maybe you will encounter someone wiser than me, that will convince you that you live under a veil that covers for you the real world. But, after seeing your ability to explain to yourself harsh reality, I wonder, what needs to happen to change your basic outlook? Which for me is contrary to Christianity, which in its ortodox form, teaches that we need to see reality as it is at a given time? Maybe your private world needs to start crumbling to make you reconsider your basic assumptions.? Like your parish church being closed (it is so hideous, that I will be glad at some level, if they destroy this architectural sin), new priest will start saying things so contrary to the Church teaching, like fornication is good and desired by God and divorce is an act of mercy, or you son deciding to embrace gay life and sex with other man?


To make my post understandable, I need to first write few boring things about my background. I'm daily C++ programmer, with some Rust on the horizon and teacher in one polish [https://www.wszib.edu.pl/](college), when I teach first year students how to write code in C. My students are truly beginners having problem with writing "Hello World!" in C (studio.h is not the same as stdio.h show displayed code). I also have some background knowledge of Lisp language family.

In last few month I want to go back to Julia and learn it better. I know it basic, surface syntax, but we know you can open the hood and go down rabbit hole very deep. Also, I don't know how to write code with good conformance. And I just like do everything I do as best as I can. My main limitations is that my daily job requires from me C, C++ and I also should learn some Rust and it leaves not many time for Julia.

So, I was going through the learning materials that I find and unfortunately time wasn't kind to most of them. Even core Julia code written few years ago can produces errors now. Like code from [JuliaAcademy course](https://juliaacademy.com/courses/375479/lectures/5863644) used to compilation of C code
`open(gcc -fPIC -O3 -msse3 -xc -shared -o $(Clib * "." * Libdl.dlext) -, "w")`
It doesn't work in my Julia 1.9.3 and after some time I figured out that `Libdl.dlext` should be replaced by `Base.Libc.Libdl.dlext' and it run. In the same lecture we have code
`apy_list = PyCall.array2py(a, 1, 1)'
I didn't figure out how to run it, but it is [PyCall.jl](https://github.com/JuliaPy/PyCall.jl) issue, not base Julia. Of course I didn't check all learning materials, but work my way through few of them.

Ad rem. I don't know what is the main direction of Julia community outreach right now, I'm not involved enough at this moment to know such things. What I sadly see, it is that learning materials are quite ill suited for beginners, teaching first year students programming in C make this even more painfully obvious. People like me can figure out how to tweak a code or check great Julia manual to find solution, but most beginners will probably stuck and just abandoning learning Julia, due to poor teaching materials. On the bright side of things, when times allows I work my way through materials on [doggo dot jl](https://www.youtube.com/@doggodotjl) and at this moment I very satisfied by them.

I quite passionate about Julia, only my daily life often doesn't allow me to follow this passion. And I'm also very interested in making programming languages accessible to beginners and scientist outside CS. From this perspective I must sadly say, that judging Julia learning materials, outreach to the beginners is quite poor. Maybe Julia is not a language for beginners (???), but I think many outstanding members of community show how much potential is in reaching outside CS, which to me signals that being open to people starting their adventure with programming. If beginners have a problems with learning materials, he or she will probably find answer here, but good tutorials shouldn't force people to ask community for help again and again.

I need to stress one thing. Since even [introductions to Julia](https://juliaacademy.com/courses/375479/lectures/5745524) used many packages outside core Julia and standards library, so it is quite unavoidable that they will broke over time. At the same time problem with `Libdl.dlext' moved to `Base.Libc.Libdl.dlext' seems to be braking change in Julia itself, that shouldn't happened in Julia 1.x from what I understand. It is not true problem for me, outside being unsettling.

To make my post understandable, I need to write few boring things about my background. I'm daily C++ programmer, with some Rust on the horizon and teacher in one polish [https://www.wszib.edu.pl/](college), when I teach first year students how to write code in C. My students are truly beginners having problem with writing "Hello World!" in C (studio.h is not the same as stdio.h show displayed code). I also have some background knowledge of Lisp language family.

In last few month I want to go back to Julia and learn it better. I know it basic, surface syntax, but we know you can open the hood and go down rabbit hole very deep. Also, I don't know how to write code with good conformance. And I just like do everything I do as best as I can. My main limitations is that my daily job requires from me C, C++ and I also should learn some Rust and it leaves not many time for Julia.

So, I was going through the learning materials that I find and unfortunately time wasn't kind to most of them. Even core Julia code written few years ago can produces errors now. Like code from [JuliaAcademy course](https://juliaacademy.com/courses/375479/lectures/5863644) used to compilation of C code
`open(gcc -fPIC -O3 -msse3 -xc -shared -o $(Clib * "." * Libdl.dlext) -, "w")`
It doesn't work in my Julia 1.9.3 and after some time I figured out that `Libdl.dlext` should be replaced by `Base.Libc.Libdl.dlext' and it run. In the same lecture we have code
`apy_list = PyCall.array2py(a, 1, 1)'
I didn't figure out how to run it, but it is [PyCall.jl](https://github.com/JuliaPy/PyCall.jl) issue, not base Julia. Of course I didn't check all learning materials, but work my way through few of them.

Ad rem. I don't know what is the main direction of Julia community outreach right now, I'm not involved enough at this moment to know such things. What I sadly see, it is that learning materials are quite ill suited for beginners, teaching first year students programming in C make this even more painfully obvious. People like me can figure out how to tweak a code or check great Julia manual to find solution, but most beginners will probably stuck and just abandoning learning Julia, due to poor teaching materials. On the bright side of things, when times allows I work my way through materials on [doggo dot jl](https://www.youtube.com/@doggodotjl) and at this moment I very satisfied by them.

I quite passionate about Julia, only my daily life often doesn't allow me to follow this passion. And I'm also very interested in making programming languages accessible to beginners and scientist outside CS. From this perspective I must sadly say, that judging Julia learning materials, outreach to the beginners is quite poor. Maybe Julia is not a language for beginners (???), but I think many outstanding members of community show how much potential is in reaching outside CS, which to me signals that being open to people starting their adventure with programming. If beginners have a problems with learning materials, he or she will probably find answer here, but good tutorials shouldn't force people to ask community for help again and again.

I need to stress one thing. Since even [introductions to Julia](https://juliaacademy.com/courses/375479/lectures/5745524) used many packages outside core Julia and standards library, so it is quite unavoidable that they will broke over time. At the same time problem with `Libdl.dlext' moved to `Base.Libc.Libdl.dlext' seems to be braking change in Julia itself, that shouldn't happened in Julia 1.x from what I understand. It is not true problem for me, outside being unsettling.

This prompt me to put few question for discussion. What Julia outreach is today? Should it be directed to beginners? Can we improve learning materials to make switching to Julia easier? At this moment I don't feel qualified to give you an answer.

Can I offer my free time for creating or improving learning materials? Yes, I can make that offer, but there are few problems with me. As I said, I'm not advanced Julia programmer, my English is not good (you probably see it here) and I will need at least person to be working with me. Left alone I'm too easily distracted for things that are not my daily job. Things like learning Git more in depth (I still didn't finished [ProGit](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2) book), can easily take may attention away from one problem for a long time. When I want to go back to timestamps for Julia YT videos, but Git constantly disctract me from that. I acknowledge, I'm weird to some exctent. Experience show, that another person is needed, to keep me in check. Outside of that I will be happy to make small contribution to Julia community.




As my colleague Wojciech pointed out, there is no full symmetry in problem/paradox of twins in this formulation. If Emmy stands still in some inertial frame and Albert is going with constant velocity in his rocket, they will never meet again (considering that space-time is flat and infinite, long topic) so they will never be able to directly compared they watches. Hence no problem arrive.

I know that they would ascribe different time (I simplifying this problem) to the same events, but this is not a problem. Problem is when they meet in one place and have different time on their watches.

So if they both do nothing to change their state, they will never meet. Since they meet one of them MUST do something, like Albert turning on his rocket engine to turn around and go back to Emmy. This is what is said in Newton's First Law formulated as "When no force is acting on body A, it moves on the straight line (in inertial frame)". (It is simplification, because we are nor in classical mechanics anymore, but at these points both theories agree.) Doing nothing means not providing any force and moving along straight line with constant velocity (in inertial frame). If their straight lines of motion are not parallel (I simplify a bit) their will never meet again. To they meet one, or both of them, must use some force to change direction of motion.

From such very tangible point of view you can't claim that their situation. To claim at this level that "all motion is purely coordinate phenomena and totally relative" means that in such theory Newton's First Law is invalid. (Probably also Second Law must also be invalid in such scenerio.) And until author of the channel state clearly that he rejects Newton's First Law I will assume that he doesn't want to do that.

I should add few words about the claim is that "force isn't observable" (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ejesyx8t9Iw) only acceleration is and it is purely coordinate phenomena. I don't know how this argument can hold, for following reason. Supposed that testing car ride with 300 km/h speed (in the Earth frame of reference) and stops to 0 km/h in some short time, let say 0.1 s, while I stand and watch whole thing. If I put egg into such car it will be smashed to peaces in such situation, but in eggs frame of reference nothing is happened to it, no acceleration and as result no force. But from the point view of egg, a large force acted on me which should left me with at least few ribs broken. At this moment I don't see how this can be reconciled with the claim that force is just coordinate phenomena and I don't have any reason to try to find solution to this problem.



"If we are being charitable to the author, we could imagine the rocket being automatic, turning without Albert doing anything, etcetera." This kind of  charitable interpretation can only be done if we ignore what he made video "Can You Feel Force?" (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ejesyx8t9Iw) in which he criticized applying word "feel" to the force. In it he argue that we shouldn't say "we feel force" for various reasons, to the extent I agree with him. As such he cannot say "Albert do something" and defend it by saying that it means "Albert consciously take some actions to change his state of movement".

The main point is that. If Albert is flying in his rocket to go back to Emmy at some point some PHYSICAL phenomena must STARTS and change state of movement of Albert and his rocket. It doesn't matter if Albert pull the Lear himself or it was automated in the rocket. Some physical phenomena must occur and affected Albert to change his direction of motion. And we both agree that he will feel it effects. (Again, we have video "Can You Feel Force?".)

I should add few words about the claim is that "force isn't observable" (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ejesyx8t9Iw) only acceleration is and it is purely coordinate phenomena. I don't know how this argument can hold, for following reason. Supposed that testing car ride with 300 km/h speed (in the Earth frame of reference) and stops to 0 km/h in some short time, let say 0.1 s, while I stand and watch whole thing. If I put egg into such car it will be smashed to peaces in such situation, but in eggs frame of reference nothing is happened to it, no acceleration and as result no force. But from the point view of egg, a large force acted on me which should left me with at few ribs broken. At this moment I don't see how this can be reconciled with the claim that force is just coordinate phenomena and I don't have any reason to try to find solution to this problem.





As my colleague Wojciech pointed out, there is no full symmetry in the problem/paradox of twins in this formulation. If Emmy stands still in some inertial frame and Albert is going with constant velocity in his rocket, they will never meet again (considering that space-time is flat and infinite, long topic) so they will never be able to directly compare their watches. Hence no problem arrives.

I know that they would ascribe different times (I'm simplifying this problem) to the same events, but this is not a problem. Problem is when they meet in one place and have different time on their watches.

So if they both do nothing to change their state, they will never meet. Since they meet one of them MUST do something, like Albert turning on his rocket engine to turn around and go back to Emmy. This is what is said in Newton's First Law formulated as "When no force is acting on body A, it moves on the straight line (in inertial frame)". (It is simplification, because we are nor in classical mechanics anymore, but at these points both theories agree.) Doing nothing means not providing any force and moving along a straight line with constant velocity (in an inertial frame). If their straight lines of motion are not parallel (I simplify a bit) they will never meet again. To meet one, or both of them, must use some force to change direction of motion.

From such a very tangible point of view you can't claim that their situation. To claim at this level that "all motion is purely coordinate phenomena and totally relative" means that in such theory Newton's First Law is invalid. (Probably also Second Law must also be invalid in such a scenario.) And until the author of the channel states clearly that he rejects Newton's First Law I will assume that he doesn't want to do that.

I should add a few words about the claim that "force isn't observable" (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ejesyx8t9Iw) only acceleration is and it is purely a coordinate phenomenon. I don't know how this argument can hold, for the following reason. Suppose that the testing car rides with 300 km/h speed (in the Earth frame of reference) and stops to 0 km/h in some short time, let say 0.1 s, while I stand and watch the whole thing. If I put an egg into such a car it will be smashed to pieces in such a situation, but in the egg's frame of reference nothing's happened to it, no acceleration and as result no force. But from the point of view of the egg, a large force acted on me which left me with at least a few ribs broken. At this moment I don't see how this can be reconciled with the claim that force is just coordinate phenomena and I don't have any reason to try to find a solution to this problem.



The more I C the less I see.


ambiances

Another layer of complication is this one. In the 1970s in Poland communist under the leader of Edward Gierek were lead by communist politician, which changed in 1980s. Times of the 1970s weren't specially brutal, even when they can be quite brutal, their mostly relaid on propaganda and secret police. But their failed in their job of controlling population, what become apparent at the beginning of the 1980s. As a result, with approve of the Soviet Union the military fraction of communist party take power. What one need to understand that military fraction was part of communist party and communist as all of them, maybe even more dedicated. But their was also literally part of army, generals and colones. So when their took power communist government lead by civilians became military junta. In the way of governing very similar to this one that you see in Myanmar today, but Myanmar is much, much more brutal and aggressive than polish one.

Basically from 1980 to 1990 Poland was ruled by military junta of communist military people and this change a lot. Main person here was general Wojciech Jaruzelski that for this time was basically military dictator of Poland, approved by Soviet Union. General Jaruzelski introduced Martial Law in the name of excuse "If we don't do something, Soviet Army (former Red Army) will enter Poland and use force.".

You must understand in Poland there was a big fear that Soviet Army enter and make hell on earth like their did during World War II. Russia in polish mind and according to international law is successor of Soviet Union (former Soviet Union ambassadors were taken by Russia for example) and with war in Ukraine this fear in many people in their 50s and 60s reemerged. Younger generation is a bit different, but I encountered people in their 50s that watch war in Ukraine and says something like "Russian army is savloca (Russian term for wild bunch of criminals, more or less), like my parents (or grandparents) said". Making long story short, when nazi army soldier rape someone during World War II without permission of superior he was punished. When Red Army soldier rape someone, his superior just shrugged arms and do nothing. As a result many people that survived the war in Poland cannot speak it openly, but privatly said "German were bad, but Russian were much worse".

Going back to general Jaruzelski, outside striking fear of soviet invasion, as a military person he has little problem with sending thanks to squash protests. There were deadly casualties of such squashing, but fortunately not many. When miners in Wujek Coal Mine protested (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pacification_of_Wujek) in addition to sending riot police, military junta sends three companies infantry fighthing vehicles and one company of thanks. Nine miners were killed, which is probably not so much when you consider thanks were presented, but message was clear. "If you will protest, we can send all military might to kill you." In the 1994 the movie "Death like daily bread" was made about it and for many years this pacification was open wound for polish society. Maybe in some way it is to this day.

When general Jaruzelski died in 2014 he get state funeral attended by democratically elected polish president Bronisław Komorowski and buried in the commentary dedicated to war heroes that fight for the Poland. This cause a uproar of part of Polish society, for which he was just a brutal military dictator, judgment that I personally agree. Official justification for such honors for him were probably lines "reconciliation with the past", which sounds quite insincere to me and still cause division in polish society.

At this moment this story is far from over. Reforms of polish state, that was often described as "unconstitutional", in the last ten years were partially justified by saying that their preserve too much communist system legacy and need a reform. In this sense this problems are still with us and no national agenda for future generation seems feasible at this moment.

More griping.


I much prefer to trying to do something good in the society, where I live, which is more or less achievable, than pretend that I care for interest of humanity. I also don't believe that think about interest of humanity help solve the conflicts, for which I don't see any supporting evidence. Yes, it sounds good, but don't help solve real problems of real people. What united and divide people is not as easy as saying "we are one humanity".

And basically, I don't care about people saying "You can't support your state in unjust endeavors.". When the push come to shovel and army conscription officers comes to ones home 95 of 100 of people that said that in the times of peace, will go to kill people in the most unjust war. This was already tested many times. I care about what people are doing now, not what they said will do in situation that at this moment is pure speculation.



Since 君たちはどう生きるか in the last movie from famous 宮崎 駿 and it is now shown in polish cinemas, I was thinking what movies of him I watched previously? I see part of もののけ姫 and 千と千尋の神隠し, but only movie that I see in full is 天空の城ラピュタ. It was visually gorgeous, but I have many problems with its plot.

When I was in school one of the most impressed movie that I see (in my home) was anime 獣兵衛忍風帖. I must say, I don't want to watch it now, since from what I remember it can be quite brutal and over explicit, things that I want to avoid for my own good.

On English Wikipedia I found such text about Japanese politician 麻生 太郎.
"The Japanese media noted in November 2008 that Asō often mispronounced or incorrectly read kanji words written in his speeches, even though many of the words are commonly used in Japanese. Asō spoke of the speaking errors to reporters on 12 November 2008 saying, "Those were just reading errors, just mistakes." Asō's tendency for malapropisms has led comparisons to George W. Bush (see Bushism), and the use of his name, "Tarō" as a schoolyard taunt for unintelligent children. An anatomy professor from the University of Tokyo, Takeshi Yoro, speculated that Asō could possibly have dyslexia."

I would probably never criticized anyone because he or she has problem with kanji. Also, I know if someone has dyslexia, it can be huge problem and not easy to overcome.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tar%C5%8D_As%C5%8D
